# Bikesharing Analysis

## Overview of Analysis
The purpose of this analysis was to gather data from a bikesharing company in NYC called Citibike and explore trends among different factors in order to see if there is any potential of success in opening a bikesharing business in the city of Des Moines. This analysis was performed using Tableau as this tool is excellent for the purpose of creating data visualizations. The data was collected specifically for the month of August (2019) as that is a summer month and therefore a potentially busy time for individuals to engage in more bike riding than other times of the year. Some of the factors that were observed in this analysis included the peak hours for bike bookings, the gender of the riders according to bike utilization, the top starting and ending locations around the city and so on. Further details in the results and findings will be provided below.


## Results & Summary
[My Tableau Story](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/sandra.nwokolo/viz/Module15Challenge_16704322444120/NYCBikesharingData?publish=yes)

The Tableau story above shows the different visualizations created for the analysis of the Citibike Data:
- "Bike checkout times for users" graph shows that the most amount of bikes are checked out for shorter time durations of between 2 to 5 minutes and then the numbers start to decline once we get to the 60 minute mark and then no bikes are checked out for any time duration longer than that.
- "Bike checkout times by gender" depicts that men check out the most bikes of all the genders and highest trip duration is observed to be 6 minutes before the bike numbers start to decline. For females, the highest amount of bikes are check out for trip duration of 6 minutes while for the unknown gender, the highest number of bikes seem to be checked out for between 8 and 23 minutes.
- "Trips by weekday for each hour" shows the most amount of trips being taken between 5 and 7pm on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday, with the busiest amount being on Thursday at 5 & 6pm - 43,983 and 44,905 bike trips respectively. The least amount of trips on average are noticed between 12am & 5am everyday.
- "Trips by gender (weekday per hour)" shows that males then to take the most trips on Thursday evenings between 5pm and 6pm (30, 561 and 30, 749 respectively) and Thursday mornings at 8am (25, 694 trips recorded). The unknown gender takes the least amount of trips of all 3 with the highest being 5, 699 on Sarturdays at 12pm. Females take the most trips on Thursday at 5pm & 6pm - 10, 511 and 11, 336 respectively and alsonon Thursdays at 8am with 9,740 trips.
- "User trips by gender per weekday" illustrates that on average, the subscribers take the most trips compared to customers. And within the subscribers, the most overall trips are taken by males on thursday, friday, tuesday and monday (in descending order). The unknown gender takes the least amount of trips of all subscribers and the female subscribers take the most trips on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. For the customers, the most trips are taken on Saturdays by all genders but the unknown takes the most of all at 55,375, followed by the males at 40,284 and the females at 27, 527 trips.
- "Bike Utilization by trip duration"  represents the bike IDs with the highest amount of trip duration/utilization in NYC. Two bike ids with high bookings by users include 38530 and 39047 although these two bike types seem to have lower utilization rates among the users. Two bike ids that have really high trip durations but lower booking numbers are 39570 with a duration of 3,838,467 and 17551 with duration amount of 3,381,357. 
- "Peak hours in August" outlines the busiest hours of the day in August and from the graph, it can be noted that a large number of bikes are booked at 8am (170,730) but the most bike usage is seen at 5pm with 224, 566 bikes and then at 6pm with 215, 783 bikes. In general, the range of time with the busiest bike usage is between 4pm and 7pm. 


Two additional visualizations that can be suggested for further analysis of this data would be:
- a map of the usertypes (ssubscriber or customer) by city locations (starting locations and ending locations). This would help take note of the parts of the city where it seems each usertype is likely to book a bike from so as to provide more bikes in the busier locations or find out why these locations tend to be busier as opposed to others.
- a circle/bubble graph depicting the relationship between the genders and the average bike utilization to explore if there are certain bikes that are more preferred by each gender in order to better cater to the needs of the general population accordingly.
